Adds content to alert group react examples. (#7763)
patternfly/patternfly-react: packages/react-core/src/components/AlertGroup/examples/AlertGroup.md

---

## Examples

### Variant examples

> Alert groups utilize the same variants that are available to [alert components](components/alert/). You can add multiple alert variants to each group.

Reviewer: I think this could be rephrased a bit, as alert group variants are a bit different than alert variants if I'm understanding the intent of "variant" correctly. Would we consider the alert group variants to be "static", "dynamic" (non toast, which is currently seen as live region examples in the Alert PR), and "toast"?

### Static alert group

> Static alert groups appear when the page loads. They are seen within the normal page content flow. They will not be announced individually or explicitly to assistive technology.

Reviewer: Since all alert groups themselves should appear on page load, maybe something along the lines of:

```suggestion
Static alert groups contain alerts that appear when the page loads, and are seen within the normal page content flow. Static alert groups should not contain alerts that will dynamically appear or update.
```

```ts file="./AlertGroupStatic.tsx"
```

### Toast alert groups

> Toast alerts appear in groups on top of content at the top right of the page. Click the buttons in the example below to simulate toast alerts on this webpage.

Reviewer: Something along the lines of the following, to make it clear exactly what a toast alert group is doing (compared to a dynamic, non-toast alert group)

```suggestion
Toast alert groups position alerts on top of other content at the top right of the page. Click the buttons in the example below to simulate toast alerts on this webpage.
```

Alerts that are asynchronously appended into dynamic `AlertGroups` with `isLiveRegion` will be announced to assistive technology at the moment the change happens, following the strategy used for `aria-atomic`, which defaults to `false`. This means only changes of type `addition` will be announced.

```ts file="./AlertGroupToast.tsx"
```

**With overflow capture**

> After a specified number of alerts displayed is reached, users will see an overflow message instead of new alerts. In the following example, an overflow message will appear when more than four alerts are queued.

Reviewer 2: change "four" to 4 to match numerals

```ts file="AlertGroupToastOverflowCapture.tsx" isBeta
```

### Dynamic alert groups 

> Dynamic alerts are generated after the page initially loads. Additional measures are required to ensure these alerts are accessible to screen readers.

Reviewer: This could instead be worded more similar to the static alert group description, except noting that this type of alert group is used when alerts will dynamically update or appear.

**Singular dynamic alert groups**

These alerts will appear within the page, most likely in response to a user action.

```ts file="./AlertGroupSingularDynamic.tsx"
```

**With overflow message**

In the following example, there can be a max of four alerts shown at once, based on the value of `maxDisplayed`. If there are more than the set maximum of alerts on a page, an overflow message will appear, which users can click on to see the full list of alerts. You may adjust the maximum number of allowed alerts as needed.

Alerts asynchronously appended into dynamic alert groups with `isLiveRegion` will be announced to assistive technology at the moment the change happens. When the overflow message appears in an `AlertGroup` with `isLiveRegion`, the "view 1 more alert" text label will be read, but the alert message will not be read. 

Screen reader and keyboard users will need a way to navigate to and reveal the hidden alerts before they disappear. Alternatively, there should be a place where notifications or alerts are collected to be viewed or read later. 

```ts file="AlertGroupSingularDynamicOverflow.tsx" isBeta
```

**Multiple dynamic alert group**

> You may generate multiple alerts within a group at once in response to a user action. The following example adds three alerts per button click.

Reviewer 2: same here with 3

```ts file="./AlertGroupMultipleDynamic.tsx"

> ```

Reviewer: As a followup, I think this example and the "Async alert group" example could be updated to be non-toast. This relates to my general comment made as part of the review.

Author: For the "async alert group" example - is that only relevant for non-toast? When I turn async on, alerts are added to the queue when I click both the toast alert and inline dynamic generators, but is it only intended for the inline dynamic/non-toast in practice?

Reviewer: @edonehoo I think that example could be relevant for toast or non-toast, but I don't think we need to show it for both types. This comment was more related to my second point in the first message about a possible flow of examples (Static Alert Group > Dynamic Alert Group > Toast Alert Group). Though it may be better to just mention in the example description how an "async alert group can be applied to both non-toast and toast alert groups" or something along those lines.

Reviewer: @mcarrano do you know if the original intent for the Async alert group example was for it to only apply to toast alerts? Looks like when the component was first created that example was a toast group from the beginning, but I'm wondering if that was purposeful or just a choice made in the moment.

Reviewer 3: I do think it was by intent. Toast alerts are asynchronous by nature. For inline alerts, sure, you could insert and remove inline alerts within a page dynamically, but I don't recommend that in most cases. The inline alerts usually come as the result of a submit operation or page refresh. Otherwise I think it can be a jarring user experience.

### Async alert group

This example shows how an alert could be triggered by an asynchronous event in the application. You can customize how the alert will be announced to assistive technology via the `aria-live` property. Click the "start async" alert button below and then click the alert generator buttons in other examples to demonstrate how this may work in practice. Click the "stop async alerts" button to halt this behavior.

> See the alert [group accessibility tab](components/alert-group/accessibility) for more information on the customization options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [alert group accessibility tab](/components/alert-group/accessibility) for more information on the customization options.
```

---

## Examples

### Variants 

Alert groups can be the following variants: 

> | Variant | Description |

Reviewer 4: This table is not rendering correctly. Maybe it just needs one more empty line before the heading of the table?

```ts file="AlertGroupToastOverflowCapture.tsx" isBeta
```
### Dynamic alert groups

Dynamic alerts are generated after the page initially loads and appear within the normal page content flow. Additional measures are required to ensure these alerts are accessible to screen readers.

Click the buttons in the example below to add different alert variants to a group. 

```ts file="./AlertGroupSingularDynamic.tsx"
```

### Dynamic alert group with overflow message

In the following example, there can be a max of four alerts shown at once, based on the value of `maxDisplayed`. If there are more than the set maximum of alerts on a page, an overflow message will appear, which users can click on to see the full list of alerts. You may adjust the maximum number of allowed alerts as needed.

```ts file="AlertGroupSingularDynamicOverflow.tsx" isBeta
```

### Multiple dynamic alert groups

You may generate multiple alerts within a group at once. Click the "add alert collection" button in the example below to add three toast alerts to a group at once.

```ts file="./AlertGroupMultipleDynamic.tsx"
```

> ### Asynchronous alert groups

Reviewer: Also based on Matt's comment about this example, maybe this could be moved to be grouped along with the other toast group examples.
